---
title: "Visualisation with ggplot2"
date: 2019-09-12T00:14:43+02:00
draft: false
course_date: "12 September 2019"
expiry_date: 2019-09-12 #need to set date in this formate year-month-day
province: "Cape Town"
venue: "Bandwidth Barn"
full_venue: "Bandwidth Barn, Woodstock, Cape Town"
description: Being able to communicate the results of an analysis is as important as doing the analysis itself. In this course you’ll learn how to combine the components of ggplot2 to create effective, visually pleasing & reproducible visualisations.
type: "course"
---
            
<!-- "You provide the data, tell 'ggplot2' how to map variables to aesthetics, what graphical primitives to use, and it takes care of the details." - Hadley Wickham & Winston Chang  -->

The [ggplot2](https://github.com/tidyverse/ggplot2) package has become the **de facto** standard for making plots in R. It's possible to quickly put together a simple plot for exploratory purposes. However, with a bit of effort such a plot can be transformed into a work of art.

## Objectives

Being able to communicate the results of an analysis is as important as doing the analysis itself. In this course you’ll learn how to combine the components of ggplot2 to create effective, visually pleasing and reproducible visualisations.

## Outcomes 

Participants will be able to create static and animated visualisations with ggplot2. They will also be able to customise the presentation characteristics of these visualisations.

## Who should attend?

The course is aimed at students, academics and professionals who need to visualise data. It’s assumed that participants already have some familiarity with R.

## Course Content

- Introduction
	- Grammar of Graphics
- Components of a plot
	- Data
	- Aesthetics
	- Layers
	- Facets
	- Themes
- Aesthetics
- Layers
	- Points
	- Lines
	- Box and Violin plots
	- Histogram, Density and Bar plots
	- Smooth
	- Stats versus Geoms
	- Position
- Facets
- Scales, Legends and Coordinates
- Themes
	- Builtin themes
	- Other themes
	- Customising
- Extensions
	- Labelling points with [ggrepel](https://github.com/slowkow/ggrepel)
	- Animation with [gganimate](https://github.com/thomasp85/gganimate)

## Requirements
          
Participants are assumed to have prior experience with R, ideally having completed both the [Introduction to R](https://www.exegetic.biz/training/r-introduction/) and [Data Wrangling](https://www.exegetic.biz/training/r-data-wrangling/) courses.

#### Interactive course material
          
Our training emphasises practical skills. So, although you'll be learning concepts and theory, you'll see how everything is applied in the real world as we work through examples and exercises based on real datasets.

#### We like questions!
          
Having a firm understanding of the course content will result in you being able to confidently apply your new skills thereafter. So, if at any point you're unsure of something, just ask!

<a class="btn btn-primary register" href="https://qkt.io/fsget8" target="_blank" style="text-decoration: none;"> <strong>Purchase a ticket</strong></a>

Contact us at [training@exegetic.biz](mailto:training@exegetic.biz) if you have any questions.