---
title: "Web Scraping"
date: 2019-08-29T00:14:43+02:00
draft: true
course_date: "29 - 30 August 2019"
course_finished: false
province: "Durban"
venue: "The Sett"
description: There’s a wealth of data available on the internet which can be used for data augmentation or to create entirely new datasets. If you're not a scraping ninja, let's fix that! 
type: "course"
---

## Scope and objectives

In this course you’ll learn how to use R to selectively scrape content from websites. 
During this course we’ll scrape data from a number of sites including:

1. postal codes from [GeoNames](http://www.geonames.org/);
2. browser market share from [StatCounter](http://gs.statcounter.com/browser-market-share);
3. weather data from [Weather Underground](https://www.wunderground.com/).

#### Interactive course material
          
Our training emphasises practical skills. So, although you'll be learning concepts and theory, you'll see how everything is applied in the real world as we work through examples and exercises based on real datasets.

#### We like questions!
          
Having a firm understanding of the course content will result in you being able to confidently apply your new skills thereafter. So, if at any point you're unsure of something, just ask!

## Who should attend?

1. Students
2. Academics
3. Anyone who needs to harvest data from the internet
          
## Outcomes

Participants will be able to isolate the relevant portions of a website and write scripts to automatically extract the required information. Furthermore they’ll know how to apply these techniques to both static and dynamic websites.
          
## Requirements
          
Participants are assumed to have prior exposure to R, or at least to programming of some variety. Some familiarity with HTML and CSS will be an advantage but not mandatory. We'll be using an online development environment. This means that you can focus on learning without having to worry about solving technical problems.

## Pricing
*The prices below include lunch and refreshments during the coffee breaks.

  <table width: 100% style="margin-bottom: 1%;">
      <tr>
          <th class="pricing">Early-Bird (available until, 18:00)</th>
      </tr>
      <tr>
          <td class="pricing">R 1000 Per ticket</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
          <th class="pricing">Standard (available until, 18:00)</th>
      </tr>
      <tr>
          <td class="pricing">R 1200 Per ticket</td>
      </tr>
  </table>

<a class="btn btn-primary register" href="#" target="_blank" style="text-decoration: none;"> Purchase a ticket</a>
