---
title: "Version Control with Git"
date: 2019-09-12T00:14:43+02:00
draft: false
course_date: "12 September 2019"
expiry_date: 2019-09-12 #need to set date in this formate year-month-day
province: "Cape Town"
venue: "Bandwidth Barn"
full_venue: "Bandwidth Barn, Woodstock, Cape Town"
description: If you haven't quite figured out how to go about implementing a solid Version Control system then this is the course for you! 
type: "course"
---
            
> Imagine you are coloring in a flower coloring book. You colored in green for all leaves and now it’s time for the best part, coloring the petal. You know you enjoy red the best but it looked horrible after you finished it. With Git, you can revert your choice of red in a heartbeat and you are free to reapply the red if you change your mind. A work doesn’t have to be permanent; every action is recorded and reversible<br> - [Mac Siri](https://dev.to/maestromac/comment/him?source=post_page---------------------------)

***
## Objectives

In this course you’ll learn how to use Git (the most pervasive Version Control system today) to simplify your workflow. 

## Outcomes 

After this course you’ll be familiar with how Git works and primed to start using it on your own projects.

## Who should attend?

1. Data analysts
2. Developers
3. Researchers
4. Anyone who wants to safely store their files
5. Anyone who works in collaboration with others

## Course Content

- Why Version Control?
    - Version control systems
    - Git: A short history
- Setting Up Git
    - git config — creating an identity
- Creating a Repository
    - git init
    - Quick tour of .git folder
- Committing to the Repository
    - git add — adding files to the staging area
    - git commit — moving files from the staging area to the repository
    - git status
    - Ignoring files with .gitignore
- Tracking Changes
    - git log — browse commit messages
    - git diff
- Retrieving from the Repository
    - git checkout
    - Referencing commit using a hash
- Branches
    - Creating a branch
    - Switching between branches
    - git log --graph — visualising branches
    - Merging a branch
    - Merge conflicts
    - Deleting a branch
- Git as a Tool for Collaboration
- Remote Repository
    - What’s the deal with remotes?
    - git clone — cloning a Remote Repository
    - Clone versus fork?
    - git remote — adding and removing a remote
    - git pull
    - git fetch
    - git push
- UIs
    - Command Line versus UI
    - GitKraken

## Why should I learn to use Git?
          
1. using Git will mean that you have a complete history of revisions (and the ability to revert to older versions if something breaks or you change your mind);
2. pull requests allow developers to request to have their branches merged into the master branch while allowing project leads to keep track of new changes;
2. free backups;
3. branches - we'll chat more about these in during the course but branches allow developers to work on something new (and see exactly how it'll work/look within the existing project) while ensuring that the master branch always contains production-quality work;
4. "This project is huge! I don't know where to start!" Git will help train your brain to break down a big project into smaller bite-sized, committable, chunks. This will help you devise a better, less overwhelming game plan; and
5. Enables collaboration.

## Requirements
          
All you'll need is a computer with a browser. We'll be using an online development environment. This means that you can focus on learning without having to worry about solving technical problems.

#### Interactive course material
          
Our training emphasises practical skills. So, although you'll be learning concepts and theory, you'll see how everything is applied in the real world as we work through examples and exercises based on real datasets.

#### We like questions!
          
Having a firm understanding of the course content will result in you being able to confidently apply your new skills thereafter. So, if at any point you're unsure of something, just ask!

## Pricing
*Prices include lunch and refreshments during the coffee breaks.

  <!-- <table width: 100% style="margin-bottom: 2%;">
      <tr>
          <th class="pricing">Early-Bird(available until xx September 2019)</th>
      </tr>
      <tr>
          <th class="pricing">Single Day Ticket</th>
      </tr>
      <tr>
          <td class="pricing">R 1500 Per ticket</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
          <th class="pricing">Combination Ticket</th>
      </tr>
      <tr>
          <td class="pricing">R 2400 Per ticket</td>
      </tr>
  </table>
  <table width: 100% style="margin-bottom: 1%;">
      <tr>
          <th class="pricing">Standard (available until xx September 2019)</th>
      </tr>
      <tr>
          <th class="pricing">Single Day Ticket</th>
      </tr>
      <tr>
          <td class="pricing">R 2500 Per ticket</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
          <th class="pricing">Combination Ticket</th>
      </tr>
      <tr>
          <td class="pricing">R 4000 Per ticket</td>
      </tr>
  </table> -->

  <table width: 100% style="margin-bottom: 1%;">
      <tr>
          <th class="pricing">Early Bird (available until 22 August 2019)</th>
      </tr>
      <tr>
          <td class="pricing">R 1500 Per ticket</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
          <th class="pricing">Standard (available until 9 September 2019)</th>
      </tr>
      <tr>
          <td class="pricing">R 2500 Per ticket</td>
      </tr>
  </table>  

<a class="btn btn-primary register" href="https://qkt.io/vGS277" target="_blank" style="text-decoration: none;"> Purchase a ticket</a>
