---
title: "Building R Packages"
date: 2019-09-13T00:14:43+02:00
draft: true
course_date: "13 September 2019"
expiry_date: 2019-09-13 #need to set date in this formate year-month-day
province: "Cape Town"
venue: "Bandwidth Barn"
description: Packages make it easier to organise and share code. It sounds complicated but with some help, you'll learn that it’s not. Let us show you the ins and outs of building R packages.
type: "course"
---

## Objectives

In this course you’ll learn how to turn a collection of functions into a package.

## Outcomes 

<p style="margin-bottom: .5rem!important;">After the course participants will be able to</p>

- set up the infrastructure for a package;
- add functions and documentation;
- create unit tests;
- build the package; and
- share the package via GitHub.

## Who should attend?

Anybody who writes their own functions in R will benefit from knowing how to wrap those functions up in a package.

## Course Content

- Why Write R Packages?
    - Listing installed.packages()
    - Loading a package: library() versus require()
    - Installing
        - CRAN
        - GitHub
    - Package Management
        - {packrat}
        - {checkpoint}
- A Simple Package
    -  The anatomy of a package
        - README.md
        - Metadata: DESCRIPTION and NAMESPACE
        - Folders: R/, man/, data/ and tests/
- Creating package infrastructure
- Adding a function
- Creating documentation
- Adding data
- Building
- Installing
    - Where? Understanding .Library and .libPaths().
- Documentation
    - Documenting functions with {roxygen2}
    - Creating a package website with {pkgdown}
- Tests
    - The importance of tests
    - Writing simple tests with {testthat}
    - Running tests and interpreting results
    - Test driven development
- Automation
    - Package setup with {usethis}
        - create_package()
        - use_r() and use_test()
        - use_git() and use_github()
    - Coding workflow with {devtools}
        - load_all()
        - document()
        - check()
        - build() and install()
- Distribution
    - GitHub
    - Testing revisited: Continuous Integration with Travis
    - Preparing for CRAN



## Why should I learn to use Git?
          
1. Using Git will mean that you have a complete history of revisions (and the ability to revert to older versions if something breaks or you change your mind).
2. Pull requests allow developers to request to have their branches merged into the master branch while allowing project leads to keep track of new changes.
3. Free backups.
4. Branches - we'll chat more about these in during the course but branches allow developers to work on something new (and see exactly how it'll work/look within the existing project) while ensuring that the master branch always contains production-quality work.
5. "This project is huge! I don't know where to start!" Git will help train your brain to break down a big project into smaller bite-sized, committable, chunks. This will help you devise a better, less overwhelming game plan.
6. Enables effective collaboration.

## Requirements
          
Participants should be familiar with R and comfortable writing their own functions.

All you'll need is a computer with a browser. We'll be using an online development environment. This means that you can focus on learning without having to worry about solving technical problems.

#### Interactive course material
          
Our training emphasises practical skills. So, although you'll be learning concepts and theory, you'll see how everything is applied in the real world as we work through examples and exercises based on real datasets.

#### We like questions!
          
Having a firm understanding of the course content will result in you being able to confidently apply your new skills thereafter. So, if at any point you're unsure of something, just ask!

<a class="btn btn-primary register" href="#" target="_blank" style="text-decoration: none;"> <strong>Purchase a ticket</strong></a>

Contact us at training@exegetic.biz if you have any questions.