---
title: "Visualisation"
date: 2019-06-25T12:31:57+02:00
draft: true
course_date: "25 June 2019"
expiry_date: 2019-06-25 #need to set date in this formate year-month-day
province: "Cape Town"
venue: "Bandwidth Barn"
full_venue: "Bandwidth Barn, Woodstock, Cape Town"
description: 
type: "course"
---

## Objectives

Being able to communicate the results of an analysis is as important as doing the analysis itself. In this course you’ll learn how to use two R packages (ggplot2 and plotly) to create effective, visually pleasing and reproducible visualisations.
          
## Outcomes

Participants will be able to create static and animated visualisations with ggplot2 and interactive visualisations using plotly. They will also be able to customise the presentation characteristics of these visualisations.

## Who should attend?

The course is aimed at students, academics and professionals who need to visualise data. It’s assumed that participants already have some familiarity with R.

## Course Content
### Day 1: ggplot2

The [ggplot2](https://github.com/tidyverse/ggplot2) package has become the *de facto* standard for making plots in R. It's possible to quickly put together a simple plot for exploratory purposes. However, with a bit of effort such a plot can be transformed into a work of art.

- Introduction
	- Grammar of Graphics
- Components of a plot
	- Data
	- Aesthetics
	- Layers
	- Facets
	- Themes
- Aesthetics
- Layers
	- Points
	- Lines
	- Box and Violin plots
	- Histogram, Density and Bar plots
	- Smooth
	- Stats versus Geoms
	- Position
- Facets
- Scales, Legends and Coordinates
- Themes
	- Builtin themes
	- Other themes
	- Customising
- Extensions
	- Labelling points with [ggrepel](https://github.com/slowkow/ggrepel)
	- Animation with [gganimate](https://github.com/thomasp85/gganimate)

### Day 2: plotly

<!-- https://plotly-book.cpsievert.me/ -->

[Plotly](https://github.com/ropensci/plotly) is an open source JavaScript library for creating interactive graphs and dashboards. In this course you'll learn how to easily create sophisticated interactive visualisations from within R using Plotly.

- Fundamentals
	- ggplot to plotly with `ggplotly()`
	- Online and offline plotting
- Plot types
	- Scatter and Line plots
	- Box plots
	- Histogram and Bar plots
	- Heat maps and Contour plots
	- Polar plots
- Interactivity
	- Hover information (tooltips)
	- Custom controls (buttons, selectors and sliders)
- Style
	- Markers
	- Colour scales
	- Fonts
	- Legends
	- Axes
- Maps
- Combining plots
	- Sub-plots
	- Inset plots
	- Multiple axes
- Dashboards
- Animation
- Exporting static images
          
## Requirements
          
Participants are assumed to have prior exposure to R, or at least to programming of some variety. Some familiarity with HTML and CSS will be an advantage but not mandatory. We'll be using an online development environment. This means that you can focus on learning without having to worry about solving technical problems.

## Interactive course material
          
Our training emphasises practical skills. So, although you'll be learning concepts and theory, you'll see how everything is applied in the real world as we work through examples and exercises based on real datasets.

## We like questions!
          
Having a firm understanding of the course content will result in you being able to confidently apply your new skills. So, if at any point you're unsure of something, just ask!

Contact us at training@exegetic.biz if you have any questions.