---
title: "Introduction to SQL"
date: 2019-09-12T00:14:43+02:00
draft: false
course_date: "13 September 2019"
expiry_date: 2019-09-12 #need to set date in this formate year-month-day
province: "Cape Town"
venue: "Bandwidth Barn"
full_venue: "Bandwidth Barn, Woodstock, Cape Town"
description: If you want to build a successful career in Data Science, you'll need to learn the basics of SQL. Writing an SQL query is very often the first step in an analysis. If you can write a solid SQL query then you're already well on your way.
type: "course"
---

If you want to build a successful career in Data Science, you'll need to learn the basics of SQL. Writing an SQL query is very often the first step in an analysis. If you can write a solid SQL query then you're already well on your way.

## Objectives

In this course you’ll learn how to perform CRUD (Create, Read, Update and Delete) operations on a relational database.

## Outcomes 

Participants will be able to create and populate tables, perform moderately complex queries, update and delete records on a relational database.

## Who should attend?

This course is suitable for anybody who needs to work with data in a relational database.

## Course Content
### Data Query

Using SQL to execute queries against a Relational Database.

- What is SQL?
- SQL syntax
	- Code layout
	- Comments
- Retrieving data using `SELECT`
	- Grabbing all the fields
	- Selecting specific fields
	- Aliases
- Selecting specific records
	- Just the first few results
	- `WHERE` for filtering
	- Logical predicates
	- Matching portions of strings with `LIKE`
	- Checking for set membership with `IN`
	- `DISTINCT`
	- `CASE`
	- Working with missing (`NULL`) data
- Sorting with `ORDER BY`
- Aggregation
	- `GROUP BY`
	- Selected functions for aggregations: `MIN`, `MAX`, `COUNT`, `SUM` and `AVG`
	- Filtering after aggregation with `HAVING`
- Join
	- Why normalise?
	- `INNER JOIN`
	- `LEFT JOIN`, `RIGHT JOIN` and `FULL JOIN`

### Data Definition

Using SQL to create the structure of a Relational Database.

- `CREATE` a database
- Tables
	- `CREATE` a table
	- Column types
	- Constraints
		- `NOT NULL`
		- `UNIQUE`
		- `CHECK`
	- Index
	- Primary and Foreign keys
	- Auto increment
	- Default values
- Cleaning up
	- Dropping a table
	- Dropping a database

### Data Manipulation

Using SQL to manipulate data in a Relational Database.

- `INSERT` - Putting data into tables
- `UPDATE` - Changing existing data
- `DELETE` - Removing data

## Setup
          
Install [DBeaver](https://dbeaver.io/download/)

#### Interactive course material
          
Our training emphasises practical skills. So, although you'll be learning concepts and theory, you'll see how everything is applied in the real world as we work through examples and exercises based on real datasets.

#### We like questions!
          
Having a firm understanding of the course content will result in you being able to confidently apply your new skills thereafter. So, if at any point you're unsure of something, just ask!

<a class="btn btn-primary register" href="https://qkt.io/fsget8" target="_blank" style="text-decoration: none;"> <strong>Purchase a ticket</strong></a>

Contact us at [training@exegetic.biz](mailto:training@exegetic.biz) if you have any questions.